---
layout: post
title: Known Issues
date: 2020-09-26 12:00:00
---
* Some handheld devices might present a blank white screen after the app starts and don't advance to the actual scanning page. There can be multiple reasons for this, some of which I couldn't solve yet. In some cases that happens only for the first start after a fresh install. Therefore it could be worth trying simply to kill the app and start it again. If the behavior remains please email me your configuration: phone model, Android version, do you have bluetooth enabled and if the app has permissions.

* Old handheld devices may lose data connection during exercise. Technically the Bluetooth connection remains but the data acquisition stops. I don't have a solution for this yet, I'm applying some countermeasures, but build 85 and above will have a fix which properly finishes the workout if such data blackout happens.

* Old handheld devices may have device scanning problems. I've got reports of the application not seeing devices (fitness machine or heart rate monitors). Sometimes this may happen after one device is paired: so in case someone wants to pair both the fitness machine and the heart rate monitor may not see the second one after pairing the first one. I haven't been able to find a solution yet, although I developed countermeasures like how I handle the already paired device list (now I'm provisioning everything myself instead of polling the Bluetooth stack) or lengthening the minimum scanning time.

* During workout measurement the application has to be in the foreground. For [technical reasons the data acquisition pauses when the application is not in the foreground](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/64831910/how-to-make-my-app-keep-receiving-and-processing-bluetooth-data-while-the-phone) (either being in the background or the phone getting locked). This is the reason why the measurement screen has a wake lock which prevents the phone from going to sleep during workout. See the [FAQ for more details]({% post_url 2020-09-22-frequently-asked-questions %}). If you are a software engineer proficient in Flutter feel free to help me with advice to tackle this.

* The application is not performant enough for older or slower devices. A partial fix I can offer is a settings switch called "Simplify Measurement UI". It is off by default, but when turned on the graphs won't be available during measurement - thus decreasing the complexity of that screen. You'll still be able to look at the graphs when you examine activities in the activity list screen post-workout. If you are a software engineer proficient in Flutter feel free to help me: my goal is to refactor the application to utilize Provider and BLoC design patterns and eradicate any setState calls.

* Up until app version 1.0.30 (build 30) the downloaded exercise files have to be un-gzipped if their extension ends with '.gz', because workout portals only accept uncompressed versions. On Windows operating system [7-Zip](https://www.7-zip.org/) or [Total Commander](https://www.ghisler.com/) is able to help you with GZIP decompression.

* Rarely on certain managed networks workout uploads may falsely claim no internet connection. This is an interference between the network configuration and how the application determines the connection status. [For more details please check out the FAQ page entry]({% post_url 2020-09-22-frequently-asked-questions %}). Newer than the #30 builds will have a configurable behavior in this respect.

* Calorie counting (or some other aspect) might not match the console's display or expectations. Certain fitness machines don't report the calorie reading or distance reading they display on their console. Therefore Track My Indoor Workout needs to estimate those values on its own and that can result in sometimes even significant differences. [The FAQ contains more details]({% post_url 2020-09-22-frequently-asked-questions %}) and the future release will provide detailed configuration for the behavior to manually counteract any drift.

* Strava and other integration authentication procedures can fail in some cases. The Android ecosystem is extremely versatile and I wasn't able to track down the reason yet. A simplest trick which may help is to start the default browser (that's the same browser the application starts for you) on your device and login to Strava (or the preferred fitness portal) in advance before you'll try the upload. It's very crucial to use the same browser the application uses, otherwise it won't be able to take advantage of your logged in status. If that doesn't help there can be many reasons for a failure. If you use another browser as the default than the usual system default browser it may help to temporarily revert back to the system's browser.
